The project is about designing a logistics network for airplane spare parts. The data is from a
real airplane manufacturer with customers (airlines) that operate around the world. Demand for
airplane spare parts is quite random – airlines will discover worn or failed parts during routine and
scheduled maintenance, often at airports far away from their headquarters. Airplanes that require spare
parts need them as soon as possible. The cost of a grounded airplane can be thousands or tens of
thousands of dollars an hour in lost revenue, penalties and accommodations paid to passengers. To
support their customers, the airplane manufacturer wants to operate depots in a few countries around
the world so that the time it takes to ship urgently needed parts is kept within service level targets.
Suppliers:
The airplane manufacturer makes some of the parts it sells to customers, but it purchases many
of the parts from third-party suppliers. The suppliers are abstracted away to the countries they operate
in: in the data file, supplier 1 is all of the suppliers that operate in the United States (including the
airplane manufacturer itself). Supplier 2 is all of the suppliers that operate in Brazil, and so on. Assume
that each supplier can supply any part required, within the following limits:
Supplier 1 (the U.S.) can supply an essentially unlimited supply of parts. Every other supplier is
limited to 200,000 kg of parts per year, per supplier.
Parts:
There are 127 parts listed in the data file (numbered from 1 to 144). They represent 127 part
classes (for instance, LED lights come in many different sizes and colours, but together form a part class).
Each of the part classes has a typical weight listed in kilograms (kg).
Customer Locations:
The customers are mostly airlines who operate the aircraft they purchase from our
manufacturer, although some customers are private operators that own private jets. The customers
have headquarters in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia, but also fly these airplanes to
airports around the world. Demand for a spare part always originates from an airport where the
grounded airplane is located. Thus, we collect and abstract away customer demand to a large airport
located in each country where our customers operate. That is, each customer location is given by a two-
letter country code that represents a country where our customers have flown to. There are 119
country codes listed in the data files.
Demand:
Actual demand for these parts is random, but in this project we use historical demand patterns
to forecast typical demand. Demand is given per part class, per customer location (country), on an
annual basis. Assume that demand is constant. For example, demand in the US (country code – US) for
part class 1 (P1) is exactly 7589.3 units per year.
Depots:
One of the main decisions you will be making is where to open and operate depots around the
world. In the ‘TransCost IN’ sheet of the data file, you’ll find the names of the potential depot locations
(Chicago, Frankfurt, Sydney, etc.). In the other sheets, these depots appear as D1 through D19. These
are the same depots (e.g. Chicago is D1, Frankfurt is D2, and so on).
Each depot will have an effective operating capacity of 150,000 units per year (every order
requires an employee to pick and load the order onto a delivery truck or airplane, and each depot can
only employ so many employees), except for the Chicago depot (D1), which has an operating capacity of
300,000 units per year.
Service Levels:
The manufacturer has decided on a time-based service level for its customers: they want to
commit to having 95% of grounded planes returned to service (RTS) within 24 hours. To achieve this
service level, the company realized that every country (customer location) should be within range of a
depot that stocks the entire part catalogue. For strategic planning purposes, consider the following
when determining what “within range” should mean:
 It takes a few hours to process a customer order and arrange for a courier transport
(usually a small private cargo jet)
 It takes a few more hours to pick the order from the depot and load it onto the
transport
 The transport plane flies to the destination
 It takes a few hours to unload the transport and clear customs
 It could take a few hours to install the part and certify the grounded airplane as
airworthy.
After adding up all of the time before and after the delivery flight, the company decided that
every country should be within 9 hours flight time of an open depot. The flight times between depots
and countries are not given, but the transportation costs in the TransCost file are a suitable proxy.
Assume that any transportation lane that costs more than $5 / kg corresponds to a flight time of longer
than 9 hours (the actual calculation of transportation costs was loosely based on flight times).
Inventory
The real problem that inspired this project also included inventory at each depot. Note that the
chosen inventory levels determined whether the company could meet the 95% service level above.
Assume that each depot you open keeps sufficient inventory of every part class to meet any demand, at
no additional cost, and thus you can ignore the 95% requirement.
Problem
Part 1 - Modelling
 Model the spare parts logistics problem as a mixed integer program.
 Define the decision variables (with units), and write out and label all the constraints. Do
not solve the problem yet.
Pay careful attention to the service level restrictions – there are a few ways to ensure that every
customer is within 9 hours of an open depot. In a later part of the project, you will be asked to change
this flight time and resolve. Please consider that when modelling the service level restriction.
Part 2 - Solve
Solve the problem using gurobipy. You can follow the guide from class of loading the .csvs into
data frames then converting to NumPy arrays, or use your own method. Report the following:
 A short description of the methodology you used
 Which depots are open in your optimal solution
 The objective function value, and a brief interpretation of what it calculates
 What portion of the objective function value is fixed costs, and what portion is variable
transportation costs
Part 3 – Metrics
For your solution to be useful to the company, you have to be able to extract key information
and report it. Calculate the following:
 The number of parts and total kg of parts passing through each depot.
 The % of the capacity each depot is operating at. Which depot has the highest %? Is your
solution sensitive or robust to an increase in demand of 20%?
 Customers are ‘allocated’ to depots if we plan to ship parts from that depot to that
customer. The customer service team needs to know which depot each customer is
allocated to. Make a list of some of the important countries (customers) and which
depots they are allocated to.
 The company is also interested in some technical details. For instance, how big is your
model: How many variables and constraints did you need?
Part 4 – Service Level Sensitivity
The 9-hour flight time rule was set based on estimates for all of the other processing times
involved in getting a part shipped to a grounded airplane. What are the costs of this service level
commitment and the chosen flight time rule?
Resolve the problem multiple times. Each time, use a different flight time rule: 6-hours, 9-hours,
12-hours and 15-hours. Assume that these correspond to transportation costs of $4.50, $5, $5.50 and $6
/ kg.
 How did you modify your formulation to allow for this change?
 In each case, report on the number of depots required and the objective function value.
 Create a graph or two that summarizes the output.
 Finally, make a recommendation to the company.
The customers expect fast service time (although customers stranded at remote airports may be a
little understanding that their parts will take some time to arrive). To provide faster service, the costs to
our company likely have to increase. Is there a flight time rule that best balances faster service against
the cost of providing that service?
